(52) rnnmmzmnr mssnarxnow

This question apparently was meant to hit the very point of
his friend's absurdity in acting as he did.

Horace then supposes Bullatius thus to reply to him, as
equally with himself knowing the spot alluded to,

’ “ vv. 7—10. Scis, Lebedus quid sit; Gabiis desertior atquo
Fidenis vicus: tamen illic vivere vellem ξ
oblitusque meorum, obliviscendus et illis,
Neptunum procul e terrfi spectare furentem.

But here again, Horace most acutely and sensibly rejoim, ἶ

vv. 11, 12. Sed neque qui Capu& Romam petit imbre lutoque
Aspersus, volet in caupona vivere ς nec qui, &c- &e-

The dialogue of the Epistle thus analysed may be taken to
exemplify a great peculiarity in the manner of Horace; 1
mean, in the. delicate, sudden, and slightly marked
transitions‚ of which· his readers have justly .to complain.
The abrupt and involved style of the Satires on· this ground
alone affords frequent matter of obscurity and doubt: while
in the high-finished and perspicuous composition (generally
so) of the Epissses, difficulty from that cause very seldom
occurs. Α ,, . ,μ

If there be any truth in these principles of criticism, no
scholar with anyjudgrnent or taste to· discriminate could
possibly imagine, for instance, that the Satire which ends,

2 S. vur. 95. Canidia afflasset, pejor serpentibus atris,

and the Epistle which begins,

v l Ε. 1. ‚1, Prima dicte mihi, summe dicende Garumna, “

were ever written in continuity, as they have stood hitherto
edited. For with all his recorded slowness of revision in
satiric writing, (2 S. 111. 2. scriptorum quaeque retexens‚) the
great and striking distel-enee, so visible noW, in the whole
tone and style of composition betwixt the Satire and the:
Epistle loudly forbids such an idea. Horace in the inter-

