 

mn: ΛΝΒ annAcTEn. (55)
D

fact asserted, Scriptum quaestorium comparavit, may re-
quire some ingenuity to conjecture, how he could buy for
himself a patent place as clerk in the Treasury3 which of
course must have been the lower way of getting admission
into that respectable office. That such purchases were
made, and as early as B. 0070, appears to be an unques-
‘tionable fact, from Cicero, In Verrem. L. 111. ἕξ 78, 9,
&c- Of so much as is quoted of that Oration by the acute
and diligent Ernesti, in his Clanis Ciceroniana, under the
word Scriba, the following extract may suffice.

Scribae, qui digni sunt illo ordine, patres familias, viri
boni atque honesti—ad eos me revoca. Noli hos colligere,
qui nummulis corroyatis de nepotum donis, ac de scenico-
rum corollariis, cum decuriam emerunt, ex primo ordine ex-
plosorum, in seeundum ordinem civitatis se venisse dicunt.
Mirabimur turpes aliquos ibi esse, quo cuivis licet pretio
pervenire ἓ

The whole passage in the original is singularly curicus,
especially under the head of collybus and cerarium ; as
showing the extent of knavery which then could be prac-
tised in the provincial governments of Rome.

But in the apparent wreck of all his fortunes, it may be
a'sked, how was Horace enabled to buy this Munus Scribae,
this decuriam :2 nummulis corroqatis, it may be answered :
but from whence the corroqatio? Perhaps, from good-
natured friends still at Rome, even in those days of confu-
sion: perhaps, it has sometimes struck my mind, from per-
sons in the neighbourhood of Venusia, where on old ac-
counts in his long absence unsettled, money might yet be
due to him for ari-ears of rent.

At all events, however, one can hardly resist the conclu-
sion, that Horace did buy a kind of patent place as clerk
in the Treasuryl. The words of Suetonius, scriptum quaes-
terium comparavit, are quito express and distinct. T hc

